## Scenario

You are a level-one security operations center (SOC) analyst at a financial services company. Previously, you received a phishing alert about a suspicious file being downloaded on an employee's computer. After investigating the email attachment file's hash, the attachment has already been verified malicious. Now that you have this information, you must follow your organization's process to complete your investigation and resolve the alert.

Your organization's security policies and procedures describe how to respond to specific alerts, including what to do when you receive a phishing alert. 

In the playbook, there is a flowchart and written instructions to help you complete your investigation and resolve the alert. At the end of your investigation, you will update the alert ticket with your findings about the incident.

[Phishing incident response playbook](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rOSSCtLsiWVjAjTdJtWrSrvqpiXHissEAqiy5KD4Kv4/template/preview)

# [Alert ticket](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lt-6CnIx3qrvWCfKMg2H58URn3tYKjuGOOhO7WsNe-s/edit?tab=t.0)

| Ticket ID | Alert Message | Severity | Details | Ticket status |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| A-2703 | SERVER-MAIL Phishing attempt possible download of malware | Medium | The user may have opened a malicious email and opened attachments or clicked links. | Escalated

### Ticket comments

The alert detected that an employee downloaded and opened a malicious file from a phishing email. There is an inconsistency between the sender’s email address “76tguy6hh6tgftrt7tg.su’” the name used in the email body “Clyde West,” and the sender’s name, “Def Communications.” The email body and subject line contained grammatical errors. The email’s body also contained a password-protected attachment, “bfsvc.exe,” which was downloaded and opened on the affected machine. Having previously investigated the file hash, it is confirmed to be a known malicious file. Furthermore, the alert severity is reported as medium. With these findings, I chose to escalate this ticket to a level-two SOC analyst to take further action.

### Additional information

**Known malicious file hash:**

`54e6ea47eb04634d3e87fd7787e2136ccfbcc80ade34f246a12cf93bab527f6b`

### Email:
```
From: Def Communications <76tguyhh6tgftrt7tg.su>  <114.114.114.114>

Sent: Wednesday, July 20, 2022 09:30:14 AM

To: <hr@inergy.com> <176.157.125.93>

Subject: Re: Infrastructure Egnieer role

Dear HR at Ingergy,

I am writing for to express my interest in the engineer role posted from the website.

There is attached my resume and cover letter. For privacy, the file is password protected. Use the password paradise10789 to open. 

Thank you,

Clyde West

Attachment: filename="bfsvc.exe"
```
