# Cybersecurity Incident Report

## Resources

[Wireshark TCP/HTTP log](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1enpRzrIao3J2Lp2tOI0hmu1Cu7D7CjLGhFAiTiR9J64/edit?gid=1522826613#gid=1522826613)

 In this log file, the IP address 192.0.2.1 belongs to the company’s web server. The range of IP addresses in 198.51.100.0/24 belong to the employees’ computers. 

 ## Scenario

I work as a security analyst for a travel agency that advertises sales and promotions on the company’s website. The employees of the company regularly access the company’s sales webpage to search for vacation packages their customers might like. 

One afternoon, I receive an automated alert from my monitoring system indicating a problem with the web server. I attempt to visit the company’s website, but I receive a connection timeout error message in my browser.

I use a packet sniffer to capture data packets in transit to and from the web server. I notice a large number of TCP SYN requests coming from an unfamiliar IP address. The web server appears to be overwhelmed by the volume of incoming traffic and is losing its ability to respond to the abnormally large number of SYN requests. I suspect the server is under attack by a malicious actor. 

I take the server offline temporarily so that the machine can recover and return to a normal operating status. I also configure the company’s firewall to block the IP address that was sending the abnormal number of SYN requests. I know that my IP blocking solution won’t last long, as an attacker can spoof other IP addresses to get around this block. I need to alert my manager about this problem quickly and discuss the next steps to stop this attacker and prevent this problem from happening again. I will need to be prepared to tell my boss about the type of attack I discovered and how it was affecting the web server and employees.

## Identify the type of attack that may have caused this network interruption

One potential explanation for the website’s connection timeout error message is a DoS attack. 

The logs show that the web server stops responding after it is overloaded with SYN packet requests. 

This event could be a type of DoS attack called SYN flooding.

## Explain how the attack is causing the website to malfunction

When the website visitors try to establish a connection with the web server, a
three-way handshake occurs using the TCP protocol. The handshake consists
of three steps:
1. A SYN packet is sent from the source to the destination, requesting to
connect.
2. The destination replies to the source with a SYN-ACK packet to accept
the connection request. The destination will reserve resources for the
source to connect.
3. A final ACK packet is sent from the source to the destination
acknowledging the permission to connect.

In the case of a SYN flood attack, a malicious actor will send a large number of
SYN packets all at once, which overwhelms the server’s available resources to
reserve for the connection. When this happens, there are no server resources
left for legitimate TCP connection requests.

The logs indicate that the web server has become overwhelmed and is unable
to process the visitors’ SYN requests. The server is unable to open a new
connection to new visitors who receive a connection timeout message (An HTTP/1.1 504 Gateway Time-out (text/html) error message or a [RST, ACK] packet).

